All right we've established how to update verticals.
Now it's time to do the same thing for horizontals as well.
So we're going to once again imagine that we're sitting right here in the middle and we're going to
go only either up or down.
So we want to update either that or that right there.
So let's think about the structure of horizontals again
so remember horizontals has some very different dimensions.
It's going to be a 2D array but it's going to have only two rows inside of it and three columns because
we are representing one two three and then row two is one two three.
So they all start off as false
so just to be really clear that element right there corresponds with that well that element corresponds
with that wall.
And so on now we think about moving up or down once again we're going to establish that we've got a
starting row of one and a column equal to one and that represents the cell that we are currently in
right here.
So we need to figure out how we can essentially take these values and depending on the direction access
and update either that element or that element so once again we can kind of ignore one of these variables
in this case it's column.
So whenever we move up or down column is always going to stay the same so we are going to update the
elements at column equal to whatever the current column is however the row variable is going to change
depending upon the direction we are going so if we are going up then row needs to be whatever the current
row is minus one to get that one right there and then if we are going down
then row is going to be whatever the current row is to get this element right there that wall which
is that right there.
So in that case it be Roe which is in other words 1 in our case so to get from the center element up
it's going to essentially be either Roe minus 1.
And if we're going down it's going to be whatever the current ROE is.
And then column either way is going to stay the same OK.
So now we understand that.
Let's go back over and write out these.
Else if cases as well as well I'll say else if direction is up and we want to look at horizontals in
this case we want to look at Roe minus one and the same column and we want to update that to true and
then else if direction is down and we'll look at horizontals I'm going to take whatever the current
ROE is and the exact same column and I'll set it to true and that's pretty much it okay.
So just like we did before we're going to comment out a couple of the possible different directions
and just do a quick test and make sure that everything is working correctly.
I'm going to comment outright on the first try up right here.
So again if we are going to successfully go up we want to update that element right there which will
be at index of row 0 column 1 as I'll save this.
I'm going to go back over to the browser refresh printout horizontals.
Here's my 2 by 3 array and yep I updated the correct value now we can test the same exact thing as well
going down.
So a comment out up and on comment down so if we correctly update down we should be updating that one
right there to true to all save refresh do you horizontals again and right there we've updated to true.
Perfect.
Okay.
So that's it.
I know this has probably been pretty nasty but that is the hardest part of understanding this may stuff
is just understanding that depending upon the direction we are going we have to adjust the indices of
what we are of what Wall We are trying to update.
All right.
The last thing I'm going to do here is essentially restore my code to a working state so I'm going to
UN comment all these different directions I'm gonna make sure I get some commas back in there is my
code for format matter add on automatically removed them all then go back down to my step through cell
call right here and I'll throw in my start row and my start column okay.
The last thing I have to do is visit that next cell.
We'll take care of that in the next video.